README.adoc, before:

= GitHub Action: Register a build artifact in the CloudBees platform

Use this GitHub Action (GHA) for artifact traceability: Inform the CloudBees platform that an artifact version has been created, and report any build artifact data generated by a GHA workflow run.
To learn more about working with artifacts in the platform, refer to the link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/workflows/build-artifacts[build artifacts documentation].

IMPORTANT: This version adds OIDC support. Previous versions continue to support PAT, but updating to this version is recommended.

== Prerequisites

Set up the CloudBees platform and GHA to work together, providing key features of the platform to GHA workflows.
Refer to link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/github-actions/gha-getting-started[Getting started with GHA integration] for more information.

== Inputs

[cols="22%a,15%a,15%a,48%a",options="header"]
.Input details
|===
| Input name
| Data type
| Required?
| Description

| `name`
| String
| Yes
| The name of the artifact to send to the CloudBees platform for artifact traceability purposes.

| `version`
| String
| Yes
| The version of the artifact to send to the CloudBees platform for artifact traceability purposes.

| `url`
| String
| Yes
| The URL where the artifact version can be pulled for deployment.

| `cloudbees-url`
| String
| No
| The CloudBees platform URL. The default value is `"https://api.cloudbees.io"`.

| `digest`
| String
| No
| The artifact digest that uniquely identifies the artifact.

| `label`
| String 
| No 
| The list of labels for the artifact.

| `type`
| String
| No
| The type of artifact, such as Docker or Maven.

|===

=== Outputs

[cols="2a,1a,3a",options="header"]
.Output details
|===
| Output name
| Data type
| Description

| `cbp_artifact_id`
| String
| The identifier of the artifact sent to the 
CloudBees platform for artifact traceability purposes.

|===

== Usage examples

The following is a basic example for using the v3 action:

[source,yaml]
----
    permissions:
      id-token: write
      contents: read
    steps:
      - name: register-artifact-step
        uses: cloudbees-io-gha/register-build-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: my-artifact
          version: 1.0.0
          url: "https://my-artifact-url.com"

----

The following example specifies the artifact digest and label:

[source,yaml]
----
    permissions:
      id-token: write
      contents: read
    steps:
      - name: register-artifact-step-digest-label
        uses: cloudbees-io-gha/register-build-artifact@v3
        with:
          cloudbees-url: "https://api.cloudbees.io"
          name: my-Docker-artifact
          version: 1.0.0
          url: "https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/example"
          digest: "sha256:abcdef1234567890"
          type: "Docker"
          label: "staging,prod"

----

=== Full workflow and run example

The following GHA workflow example uses version v3 of this action.
Running this workflow creates an artifact that is reported to the platform, and the artifact is shown as published by the GHA workflow.

.Example GHA workflow YAML file
[.collapsible]
--

[source, yaml,role="default-expanded"]
----
name: GHA Workflow

on:
    workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      id-token: write
      contents: read
    steps:
      - name: Compile Code
        run: echo "Compiling..."

      - name: Produce Binary
        run: sleep 10

      - name: Push binary
        run: echo "Pushing Binary to ECR..."

      - name: Register Build Artifacts in Cloudbees Platform
        uses: cloudbees-io-gha/register-build-artifact@v3
        id: go-action
        with:
          name: "gha-artifact-test"
          version: 1.0.0
          url: "docker.io/example:latest"
          cloudbees-url: "https://api.cloudbees.io"
          digest: "sha256:1234567890abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890abcdefghijklmnopqr"
          label: "For testing"
          type: "docker"
      
      - name: Registered Build ArtifactId
        run: echo 'Registered Build ArtifactId ${{ steps.go-action.outputs.cbp_artifact_id }}'

  deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    needs: [build]   # Depends on 'build' job
    steps:
      - name: Checkout to Prepare Manifest
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: Trigger Deployment
        run: echo "Invoking CBP Deploy Workflow..."
----
--

After the run has completed, the artifact information is displayed in both the *Artifacts* list and the *Build artifacts* tab of *Run details* in the platform.
The artifact is shown to be published by the GHA workflow.

== License

This code is made available under the 
link:https://opensource.org/license/mit/[MIT license].

== References

* Learn more about link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/github-actions/intro[Using GitHub Actions with the CloudBees platform].
* Learn about link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/[the CloudBees platform].

Commit message:

CBP-15520 - Enhance register-build-artifact action to accept commit details (#23)

README.adoc, after:

= GitHub Action: Register a build artifact in the CloudBees platform

Use this GitHub Action (GHA) for artifact traceability: Inform the CloudBees platform that an artifact version has been created, and report any build artifact data generated by a GHA workflow run.
To learn more about working with artifacts in the platform, refer to the link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/workflows/build-artifacts[build artifacts documentation].

IMPORTANT: This version adds OIDC support. Previous versions continue to support PAT, but updating to this version is recommended.

== Prerequisites

Set up the CloudBees platform and GHA to work together, providing key features of the platform to GHA workflows.
Refer to link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/github-actions/gha-getting-started[Getting started with GHA integration] for more information.

== Inputs

[cols="22%a,15%a,15%a,48%a",options="header"]
.Input details
|===
| Input name
| Data type
| Required?
| Description

| `name`
| String
| Yes
| The name of the artifact to send to the CloudBees platform for artifact traceability purposes.

| `version`
| String
| Yes
| The version of the artifact to send to the CloudBees platform for artifact traceability purposes.

| `url`
| String
| Yes
| The URL where the artifact version can be pulled for deployment.

| `cloudbees-url`
| String
| No
| The CloudBees platform URL. The default value is `"https://api.cloudbees.io"`.

| `digest`
| String
| No
| The artifact digest that uniquely identifies the artifact.

| `label`
| String 
| No 
| The list of labels for the artifact.

| `type`
| String
| No
| The type of artifact, such as Docker or Maven.

| `repository-url`
| String
| No
| The clone URL of the repository.

| `commit`
| String
| No
| The commit ID from the source repository.

| `ref`
| String
| No
| The ref or branch of the checked-out repository.
|===

=== Outputs

[cols="2a,1a,3a",options="header"]
.Output details
|===
| Output name
| Data type
| Description

| `cbp_artifact_id`
| String
| The identifier of the artifact sent to the 
CloudBees platform for artifact traceability purposes.

|===

== Usage examples

The following is a basic example for using the v3 action:

[source,yaml]
----
    permissions:
      id-token: write
      contents: read
    steps:
      - name: register-artifact-step
        uses: cloudbees-io-gha/register-build-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: my-artifact
          version: 1.0.0
          url: "https://my-artifact-url.com"

----

The following example specifies the artifact digest and label:

[source,yaml]
----
    permissions:
      id-token: write
      contents: read
    steps:
      - name: register-artifact-step-digest-label
        uses: cloudbees-io-gha/register-build-artifact@v3
        with:
          cloudbees-url: "https://api.cloudbees.io"
          name: my-Docker-artifact
          version: 1.0.0
          url: "https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/example"
          digest: "sha256:abcdef1234567890"
          type: "Docker"
          label: "staging,prod"
          repository-url: "http://github.com/example/repo"
          commit: "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000"
          ref: "main"
----

=== Full workflow and run example

The following GHA workflow example uses version v3 of this action.
Running this workflow creates an artifact that is reported to the platform, and the artifact is shown as published by the GHA workflow.

.Example GHA workflow YAML file
[.collapsible]
--

[source, yaml,role="default-expanded"]
----
name: GHA Workflow

on:
    workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      id-token: write
      contents: read
    steps:
      - name: Compile Code
        run: echo "Compiling..."

      - name: Produce Binary
        run: sleep 10

      - name: Push binary
        run: echo "Pushing Binary to ECR..."

      - name: Register Build Artifacts in Cloudbees Platform
        uses: cloudbees-io-gha/register-build-artifact@v3
        id: go-action
        with:
          name: "gha-artifact-test"
          version: 1.0.0
          url: "docker.io/example:latest"
          cloudbees-url: "https://api.cloudbees.io"
          digest: "sha256:1234567890abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890abcdefghijklmnopqr"
          label: "For testing"
          type: "docker"
      
      - name: Registered Build ArtifactId
        run: echo 'Registered Build ArtifactId ${{ steps.go-action.outputs.cbp_artifact_id }}'

  deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    needs: [build]   # Depends on 'build' job
    steps:
      - name: Checkout to Prepare Manifest
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: Trigger Deployment
        run: echo "Invoking CBP Deploy Workflow..."
----
--

After the run has completed, the artifact information is displayed in both the *Artifacts* list and the *Build artifacts* tab of *Run details* in the platform.
The artifact is shown to be published by the GHA workflow.

== License

This code is made available under the 
link:https://opensource.org/license/mit/[MIT license].

== References

* Learn more about link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/github-actions/intro[Using GitHub Actions with the CloudBees platform].
* Learn about link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/[the CloudBees platform].
